We are going to look at
the program that we've
just written to close the fileReader.
So we open Scanner,
we did not close it, right?
So remember, we wanna close our streams,
especially when you're dealing with files.
Because when you open a file
like the program does,
you've all seen this before where you
try to manipulate some file open and
some other application has this locked,
right?
So you got this locked
until you let it go.
So, we want to go and
close the fileReader.
Now this part is kind of tricky is like,
where should I close it?
If I were just looking
at this on instinct,
then I would probably want to
close it like after this while,
because now I'm done reading
from the file, right?
So let's say fileReader.close, and
that's fine but
what if there was an exception thrown,
maybe while we were reading from the file
that actually did happen, right?
When we had that string.
So if an exception is thrown here on
line 15 that input mismatch exception,
it's going to go inside of
the input mismatch exception
catch block on line 21,
it never ever executes line 17.
So I wouldn't close it, right?
All right, so I think well,
crap, I don't wanna do that.
What if I moved it inside of here,
or inside of the other exception?
Well, now I can't even access
it cuz I'm outside of the scope,
but even if I were to move scan reader
outside of the try block, let's do that.
In fact, I'm gonna move this.
I'm gonna just set it to
null to begin with, and
then we'll set it in the try, all right?
So if I move it to here, like if this one
is not thrown then this never gets close,
so this doesn't feel like
a good place to put it either.
So it's like, okay, what do I do?
Now, there's another
clause that you can add
to these toe try catch
block is called finally.
And finally just has a set of parentheses,
I mean not parentheses, curly braces,
and you will add any statements that you
want executed after this try catch block,
no matter what happens.
If you stay in the try,
if an exception is caught or whatever,
I don't care,
after you're done with this whole thing,
this finally block will say, well,
go ahead and do these statements.
So this would be a good place to put that.
We could say fileReader.close right here.
So no matter what happens, finally I
want you to close that thing for me.
>> How does the finally and
the curly braces work with regards
to the scope of that try statement?
>> Yeah, so if I were to leave this here,
I don't think it would know that.
Yeah, it wouldn't,
cuz even the catch blocks didn't
know fileReader when it was here.
Remember, when we declare a variable
is only known within the curly braces
that it's defined, so when we defined
it here, you can't use it and
catch and you wouldn't be able
to use it and finally either.
Which is why we needed to move it inside
of the curly braces of the method,
so that you can access it
within these smaller scopes.
So when resources such as input or
output streams are open, and
an exception interrupts the flow
of the program, again, those
resources aren't closed properly unless
you took specific precaution to do so.
So we've already talked about
the finally part, right?
So there's that and
that's perfectly fine, but
there's also a better way that you can
handle this with a little bit less code.
So that's with try with resources.
Try with resources is gonna allow you to
declare resources that you'll
be used within the try block.
And then Java will automatically
close those resources for
you after the execution of the block.
So that's pretty nice.
So we're going to update our code, and
we're gonna automatically close
fileReader within the try block itself.
So I'm gonna comment this out just so
you have this as an example, okay?
Is that correct?
>> You still have the exception for E.
>> All right, so,
the way we would do this,
this is the only time that
try has a set of parentheses.
Otherwise, try just has the curly braces.
But then within parentheses you can
declare, like any resources that
you want automatically closed
at the end of this thing.
So I would actually
define fileReader here.
So I'm gonna take the fileReader.
Man, okay,
I want you to have both of these examples.
I'm just gonna copy this.
Shoo, and I got a main.
[LAUGH]
>> Refactor into a new method,
really good to just refactor
it into a new method.
>> No, I'm gonna make,
I'm gonna copy this class,
I'm gonna copy this class.
All right, let's clone it.
So I'm gonna copy,
we're gonna make a paste,
and we'll call this one AutoClosable.
No, what is it called?
TryWithResources, let's just call it that.
TryWithResources.
Okay, So,
we can get rid of finally, yes.
And then, with the try, we will declare
our resource within the parentheses, and
you can go ahead and
actually assign the value, too.
And we'll clean this up, and that's it.
So basically, I just put the declaration
inside of a set of parentheses
next to the try, and that has declared
this as a resource that I would like
closed after we're done with this block.
Now the only types of
resources you can put in here,
you can't put anything you want.
They have to be a subclass of
the AutoClosable class within Java.
Scanner happens to be one of those,
so we're in luck.
>> Can you put more than one resource or
just one?
>> You can.
So if you wanted to put another resource,
see, I think I might have an example.
Yeah, I do.
Give me a moment.
All right, so
I wanna combine these exceptions, too, so
you have an example of that.
So we'll see, or
let's get rid of that so
nice and clean, all right.
Oops, getMessage.
All right, well, that looks nice.
>> Clean, readable.
>> You see?
All right.